In the dominion of object-oriented programming (OOP), there are two core ideas: objects and classes. These concepts are the base of OOP because they determine how a program should organize its data and behaviors. Objects within a program are concrete representations of either real-life items or abstract ideas. They contain attributes (data) as well as methods (behaviors) that define instances with specific traits. Conversely, classes act as blueprints from which objects can be created; they serve as templates specifying what an object’s structure should look like and how it ought to behave in certain situations – while also encapsulating shared attributes among many different instances.
Classes offer an abstract representation by showing a general plan for creating objects at different levels of abstraction. In contrast, objects live at the lowest level by embodying actual things with defined information-hiding states plus their associated operations that can be performed on them through method calls. At this point, we can say that classes provide a higher level view than objects since they deal with more general aspects of these entities, but when it comes down to it, classes have nothing on objects that are created based on class definitions – so there is no relationship between these two besides the fact that one is derived off another or put simply “inherited.” Classes also serve as building blocks within programs where they help structure code while providing a foundation for object creation.
From an abstraction perspective, it is essential to note that classes work in terms of representations ranging from very high-level plans for generating different categories down through various levels until concrete manifestations containing definite hiding state variables together with associated procedures linked up via message passing are realized during execution time. In addition, relationships exist between them such that each lower level inherits characteristics from its corresponding upper one, thus forming what could be referred to as a hierarchical system development model.
An example that clarifies some points here is that if you want your application to model cars, it will involve defining properties like number_of_doors and methods such as accelerate() or brake(). Here, class Car could define these attributes along with other common ones like color. At the same time, objects instantiated from this class would represent specific instances with their own unique data values for those properties.

